Acd 843 (#63)
Actindo-AG/Documentation: Payments/Operation/02_ManagePaymentsAndCaptures.md

> [!!LIST (Payments and captures](../UserInterface/02a_ListPaymentsAndCaptures.md))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[!!LIST (Payments and captures)](../UserInterface/02a_ListPaymentsAndCaptures.md)
```

Author: ddone

> [!!LIST (Payments and captures](../UserInterface/02a_ListPaymentsAndCaptures.md))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[!!LIST (Payments and captures])(../UserInterface/02a_ListPaymentsAndCaptures.md)
```

# Monitor payments and captures

> A capture is a payment made. The most payment service providers create a new reference, when a payment has been captured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A capture is a payment made. The most payment service providers create a new reference when a payment has been captured.
```

Author: Done

> > [Info] This means that you cannot follow up a case with the ID of an authorization transaction. However, the most payment service providers support an original reference ID that you can use to search for a specific case in the whole payment process.   

Author: you cannot follow up a case with the **ID of an authorization transaction**

> You can use this procedure to display all incoming references to a payment and capture transaction from a payment service provider. You can check for communication errors between Actindo and the payment service provider that has been caused in a termination of a workflow, for example.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use this procedure to display all incoming references to a payment and capture transaction from a payment service provider. You can check for communication errors between Actindo and the payment service provider that have led to termination of a workflow, for example.   
```
Meinst du eher das? 
Zum Thema Workflows: Wenn ein Workflow läuft auf Error, bedeutet nicht, dass es abgebrochen wird (für mich hört sich termination eher als Abbruch). Eine Handlung (Action), die auf Error läuft, kann man wieder versuchen, wenn man die Ursache behoben hat. Ich denke, das sollte hier auch so sein.

Author: done

> If you cannot deliver the product and want to give the money back to the customer, you can manually change the status of a transaction to "Refund" to initiate a repayment. Additionally, you can set the status to "Void" to clear the database from faulty entries.      

Reviewer: s. o. Komment über "clear"

> If everything works fine with the posting of a capture, you do not need to monitor the *Payments and Captures* menu entry.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If everything works fine with the posting of a capture, you do not need to monitor the *Payments and captures* menu entry.   
```

> [Info] You can only change the status of a payment and capture transaction, but not any data.

## Check payment and capture transaction

> A capture provides numerous payment-related details, which may vary depending on the payment service provider settings. To decide, whether you can manually refund or void a payment and capture transaction, you need to check its details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A capture provides numerous payment-related details, which may vary depending on the payment service provider settings. To decide whether you can manually refund or void a payment and capture transaction, you need to check its details.
```

Author: Done

#### Prerequisites

> - At least one connection has been created, see [Create a connection](../Integration/01_ManageConnections.md#create-a-connection).

Reviewer: Einige Links stimmen mit den Namen der Header nicht überein. Bitte durchgängig prüfen.

Author: done

- At least one payment and capture transaction has been created.
- It is recommended that you add the *Status ID* column to your view so that you are able to sort or filter for specific statuses. 

#### Procedure

> *Payments > Payments and Captures > Tab LIST*  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Payments > Payments and captures > Tab LIST*  
```
Bei allen Menüpunkten/UI Elementen nur das erste Buchstabe groß (so der Regel).

Author: done

![Payment and capture transactions](../../Assets/Screenshots/Payments/PaymentsCaptures/LISTPaymentsCaptures.png "[Payment and capture transactions]")  

1. Check the payment and capture transaction status in the *Status* column. The status displays the current stage in the payment process. You can use the status ID prefixed below to filter the list. The following statuses are available:   
    - **1 - Preparing**  
        The transaction has been created, but is not yet transferred.
    - **2 - Unconfirmed**   
        A refund is reserved but not yet released by an Actindo user. This status is relevant for some functions only, for example, the cancellations and chargebacks.
    - **3 - Success**  
        Actindo has got the response from the service payment provider, that the transfer was successfull.
    - **4 - Failure**   
        The payment service provider has received the request, but it cannot process it. If available for the connection, the *Status information* field provides further information.
    - **5 - Error**   
       Errors have been occurred during transfer.
    - **6 - Void**   

>        The transaction has been voided, see [Void payment and capture transaction](#void-payment-and-payment-and-capture-transaction).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       The transaction has been voided, see [Void payment and capture transaction](#void-payment-and-capture-transaction).
```

Author: Done

>     

Author: zu unübersichtlich

> 2. Click on a transaction to see the details.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click a capture and payment transaction to see the details.   
```

Author: Das verwirrt nur, ich bin ja nun in der payment und capture

>     The sub-tabs of the transaction are opened.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The *Capture"Capture ID"* view is displayed. The *Attributes* tab is preselected by default. 
```

Author: Done

>     *Payments > Payments and Captures > Tab LIST > Select a payment and capture transaction*   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 
```

    ![Payment and capture attributes and logs](../../Assets/Screenshots/Payments/PaymentsCaptures/CheckAttributes.png "[Payment and capture attributes and logs]")   

> 3. Check the attributes and logs of the transaction. For detailed information, see the following:

Reviewer: s.o. (ManageAuthorizations) bitte meine Kommentare unter diesem Punkt. Ich würde es hier auch genauso ergänzen.

     - [LIST &ndash; Attributes](../UserInterface/03_ListPaymentsAndCaptures.md#payments-and-captures-–-attributes)
     - [LIST &ndash; Logs](../UserInterface/03_ListPaymentsAndCaptures.md#payments-and-captures-–-logs)

> 4. Return to the LIST and decide how to proceed with the transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Return to the list of captures and payments and decide how to proceed with the transaction.
```

> 

Reviewer: s.o. (ManageAuthorizations)

## Refund payment and capture transaction

> After you have checked a payment and capture transaction that could not be processed by the workflow, you can refund the payment and capture transaction manually, so that the order process can be cancelled and the customer can get his or her money back.<!---ist das richtig-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you have checked a payment and capture transaction that could not be processed by the workflow, you can refund the payment and capture the transaction manually, so that the order process can be cancelled and the customer can get his or her money back.<!---ist das richtig-->
```

Author: done

#### Prerequisites

> The status of a payment and capture transaction is **not** success. In this case, further processing has already been continued. <!---ist das richtig-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The status of a payment and capture transaction is not **Success**. In this case, further processing has already been continued. <!---ist das richtig-->
```
s. Kommentar oben

> The status of a payment and capture transaction is **not** success. In this case, further processing has already been continued. <!---ist das richtig-->

Author: Soll Stefen entscheiden -> technical review

#### Procedure

*Payments > Payments and Captures > Tab LIST*   

![LIST (Payments and captures)](../../Assets/Screenshots/Payments/PaymentsCaptures/ChangePaymentsCaptures.png "[LIST (Payments and captures]")   

> 

Reviewer: Im Screeshot sollte man kein editing toolbar angezeigt werden, daher auch keinen Checkbox markiert.

1. Check the payment and capture transaction you want to refund, see [Check payment and capture transaction](#check-payment-and-capture-transaction).
2. Select the payment and capture transaction you want to refund by clicking the checkbox on the left.   
    The editing toolbar is displayed.

> 3. Click the [Refund] button. <!---was passsiert dann-->   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click the [REFUND] button. <!---was passsiert dann-->   
```

Author: Done

> 3. Click the [Refund] button. <!---was passsiert dann-->   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click the [REFUND] button. <!---was passsiert dann-->   
```

>    A confirmation message is displayed. The status of the payment and capture transaction has changed to *Success*. <!---Stefan, oder "Unconfirmed"?-->   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   A confirmation message is displayed. The status of the payment and capture transaction has changed to **Success**. <!---Stefan, oder "Unconfirmed"?-->   
```

Author: done

>    A confirmation message is displayed. The status of the payment and capture transaction has changed to *Success*. <!---Stefan, oder "Unconfirmed"?-->   

Author: ja

>    You can now follow up this case under the menu entry *Refunds*. <!-----Stefan ist das richtig?--> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You can now follow up this case under the *Refunds* menu entry. <!-----Stefan ist das richtig?--> 
```
Noch zu allgemeinen Schreibregeln im ESG: Erst Eigenname des jeweiligen UI Element, dann die Beschreibung, also *Refunds* menu entry, [REFUND] button, *Status ID* column, usw.

Author: done

> 

Reviewer: Offene Fragen noch zu klären.

Author: kann ich nichts mit anfangen..

## Void payment and capture transaction

> You can void a payment and capture transaction, if you want to disable the transaction for the Actindo database. 

Reviewer: s.o. (in ManageAuthorizations) Kommentar über "disable the transaction"

> > [Info] The payment service provider will not be informed about changing the status to "Void". It is only done to clear the Actindo database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [Info] The payment service provider will not be informed about changing the status to **Void**. It is only done to clear the Actindo database.
```
"Clear the database": Vielleicht kann das missvestanden werden? Ich vermute, es wird nicht gelöscht von der Datenbank, sondern nur als "Void" markiert, damit die Transaktion nicht "hängend" bleibt? Stefan meinte "for houskeeping purposes".

Author: darum clear, dann ist es sauber

> > [Info] The payment service provider will not be informed about changing the status to "Void". It is only done to clear the Actindo database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [Info] The payment service provider will not be informed about changing the status to **Void**. It is only done to clear the Actindo database.
```

#### Prerequisites

> The status of a payment and capture transaction is **not** "Success". In this case, further processing has already been continued. <!---ist das richtig-->

Reviewer: Ist das überhaupt möglich?

> The status of a payment and capture transaction is **not** "Success". In this case, further processing has already been continued. <!---ist das richtig-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The status of a payment and capture transaction is not **Success**. In this case, further processing has already been continued. <!---ist das richtig-->
```
s. Kommentare dazu oben

#### Procedure

> *Payments > Payments and Captures > Tab LIST*

Reviewer: ```suggestion

*Payments > Payments and captures > Tab LIST*
```

Author: Done

![Void payment and capture transaction](../../Assets/Screenshots/Payments/PaymentsCaptures/ChangePaymentsCaptures.png "[Void payment and capture transaction]")   

>  1. Identify the communication issue that led to the error. To do this, check the payment and capture transaction you want to void, see [Check payment and capture transaction](#check-payment-and-capture-transaction).

Reviewer: s.o. Failure vs. Error

2. Select the payment and capture transaction to be voided by clicking the checkbox on the left.   

>     The editing toolbar is displayed.

Reviewer: Zu weit eingerückt

Author: Done

> 3. Click the [Void] button.    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click the [VOID] button.    
```

Author: done

>    A confirmation message is displayed. The status of the payment and capture transaction has changed to "Void". It is no longer valid for the Actindo database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   A confirmation message is displayed. The status of the payment and capture transaction has changed to **Void**. It is no longer valid for the Actindo database.
```

Author: done

>    A confirmation message is displayed. The status of the payment and capture transaction has changed to "Void". It is no longer valid for the Actindo database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   A confirmation message is displayed. The status of the payment and capture transaction has changed to **Void**. The transaction is no longer valid for the Actindo database.
```

   You can now follow up this case under the *Refunds* menu entry. <!---Stefan ist das richtig?--> 

## Void payment and capture transaction

You can void a payment and capture transaction, if you want to invalidate the transaction for the Actindo database. 
> [Info] The payment service provider will not be informed about changing the status to **Void**. It is only done to clear the Actindo database from faulty entries.

#### Prerequisites

The status of a payment and capture transaction is **Failure** or **Error**. 

#### Procedure
*Payments > Payments and captures > Tab LIST*

![Payment and capture transactions](../../Assets/Screenshots/Payments/PaymentsCaptures/LISTPaymentsCaptures.png "[Payment and capture transactions]")  

 1. Identify the issue that led to the error/failure. To do this, check the payment and capture transaction you want to void, see [Check payment and capture transaction](#check-payment-and-capture-transaction).
2. Select the payment and capture transaction to be voided by clicking the checkbox on the left.   
The editing toolbar is displayed.

> 3. Click the [VOTD] button.    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click the [VOID] button.    
```
